build-linux.rst, before:

Building on Linux
=================

Building horizon on Linux is as simple as ``make`` after you’ve cloned
this repo.

Install dependencies
--------------------

Make sure you got these dependencies installed:

-  Gtkmm3 ≥ 3.20
-  cairomm-pdf
-  librsvg
-  util-linux
-  sqlite
-  boost
-  zeromq
-  glm
-  libgit2
-  curl
-  opencascade / opencascade community edition
-  zeromq with C++ bindings: https://github.com/zeromq/cppzmq
-  podofo
-  libzip

On Ubuntu ≥17.04 run:

::

   sudo apt install libsqlite3-dev util-linux librsvg2-dev \
       libcairomm-1.0-dev libepoxy-dev libgtkmm-3.0-dev uuid-dev libboost-dev \
       libzmq5 libzmq3-dev libglm-dev libgit2-dev libcurl4-gnutls-dev liboce-ocaf-dev \
       libpodofo-dev libzip-dev

On Arch Linux:

::

   sudo pacman -S zeromq gtkmm3 cairomm librsvg sqlite3 libgit2 curl \
        opencascade boost glm podofo libzip

On Fedora 25/26/27:

::

   sudo dnf install git make gcc gcc-c++ pkg-config cppzmq-devel OCE-devel\
      gtkmm30-devel libgit2-devel libuuid-devel sqlite-devel librsvg2-devel\
      cairomm-devel glm-devel boost-devel libcurl-devel podofo-devel libzip-devel

On openSUSE Tumbleweed:

::

   sudo zypper in git make gcc gcc-c++ pkg-config cppzmq-devel oce-devel\
      gtkmm3-devel libgit2-devel libuuid-devel sqlite3-devel librsvg-devel\
      cairomm-devel glm-devel boost-devel libcurl-devel libpodofo-devel binutils-gold libzip-devel

Build it
--------

::

   make -j 4 #adjust this to the number of CPU cores

Running
-------

The resulting binaries are self-contained and don’t require any external
data files like icons or so.
``horizon-eda`` is the main program executable. Run it from the build
directory:

::

   build/horizon-eda

Commit message:

building on linux: add min. GCC version

build-linux.rst, after:

Building on Linux
=================

Building horizon on Linux is as simple as ``make`` after you’ve cloned
this repo.

Install dependencies
--------------------

Make sure you got these dependencies installed:

-  Gtkmm3 ≥ 3.20
-  cairomm-pdf
-  librsvg
-  util-linux
-  sqlite
-  boost
-  zeromq
-  glm
-  libgit2
-  curl
-  opencascade / opencascade community edition
-  zeromq with C++ bindings: https://github.com/zeromq/cppzmq
-  podofo
-  libzip

The C++ compiler needs to support ``std::filesystem``, for GCC this
requires version 8 or newer.

On Ubuntu ≥18.04 run:

::

   sudo apt install libsqlite3-dev util-linux librsvg2-dev \
       libcairomm-1.0-dev libepoxy-dev libgtkmm-3.0-dev uuid-dev libboost-dev \
       libzmq5 libzmq3-dev libglm-dev libgit2-dev libcurl4-gnutls-dev liboce-ocaf-dev \
       libpodofo-dev libzip-dev

On Arch Linux:

::

   sudo pacman -S zeromq gtkmm3 cairomm librsvg sqlite3 libgit2 curl \
        opencascade boost glm podofo libzip

On Fedora 25/26/27:

::

   sudo dnf install git make gcc gcc-c++ pkg-config cppzmq-devel OCE-devel\
      gtkmm30-devel libgit2-devel libuuid-devel sqlite-devel librsvg2-devel\
      cairomm-devel glm-devel boost-devel libcurl-devel podofo-devel libzip-devel

On openSUSE Tumbleweed:

::

   sudo zypper in git make gcc gcc-c++ pkg-config cppzmq-devel oce-devel\
      gtkmm3-devel libgit2-devel libuuid-devel sqlite3-devel librsvg-devel\
      cairomm-devel glm-devel boost-devel libcurl-devel libpodofo-devel binutils-gold libzip-devel

Build it
--------

::

   make -j 4 #adjust this to the number of CPU cores

Running
-------

The resulting binaries are self-contained and don’t require any external
data files like icons or so.
``horizon-eda`` is the main program executable. Run it from the build
directory:

::

   build/horizon-eda
